he's like he's like nope
you see that face he's like he's like oh
hell no that hand in the finger shot is
a really good example of where this
starts to get really complex
bagel
there's so much more happening in the
shot than you think
hey welcome back to another episode of
visual effects artists react to bad and
great cgi so today we're joined by sam
hi my name's sam what's up sam hey i'm
the guy who's in the background here's
my background reel
i'm kind of like the bigfoot of the vfx
artists react series
all right let's jump in
what are these screaming children is
this silent hill 2
no it's not just world war z
she fell over oh oh no what is that what
what the heck man
oh gross
captain planet
[Laughter]
he backs out of there green lantern is
his limits are only his knowledge of
military history
that is his only limit
conjure a gun i was like oh this aaa gun
from 1942
dude he's so confident is he talking to
the camera is this these kevin spacey
like house of cards moment here oh here
we go military history it's a propeller
it's from the kitty hawk it's like he's
never fought in actual wars but he did
go to the smithsonian
why is there an asteroid field right
there i missed i must have missed this
he's going is he doing he's going down
dude wait oh everybody's
two jets
what about the giant fist technique the
whole yeah he's one punch man he's just
one punch man
he's probably gonna get saved there's no
way he falls into the sun
all right who are you who are you which
one are you which one are you
i'm mr red yeah you're mister
yeah you're mohawk man and then i'm
gorgo
runs ryan reynolds
all right so um
i think he's wearing pajamas for all
these things
that's how they did it ryan reynolds
body and ryan reynolds mask are a
hundred percent cg for some reason they
thought you know what we could do we
just make his entire body cg and we'll
just track something onto his face easy
peasy i can see why they'd want to do
this because he's this magical guy with
all this energy coming off of him and
he's constantly conjuring cg things so
they're gonna need to animate his body
for most of these shots anyways well it
turns out tracking something onto
somebody's face in every single shot and
making the photo reel is very hard to do
because your skin moves all over the
place you can't just track an object you
need to track it warping and stretching
and the mask is distracting and honestly
it's like that's the number one thing at
the end of the day if you've distracted
the audience you pull them out of this
emotional suspension of disbelief and
you've reminded them if they're watching
something that's fake it's just crazy to
compare how far we've come where it's
like they have this suit on the green
lantern but then they have the suits for
time traveling in avengers end game and
like compare this to that you know
so avatar was basically the first
3d film in the rebirth of 3d cinema sam
and i when we were out in la at the very
beginning of our career out here we did
a bunch of visual effects for 3d work
stereoscopic work oh god
and camera rigs for that stuff basically
i don't know if you guys are familiar
with the red one the original red camera
but it was like this big if you wanted
to shoot in 3d you needed two of these
cameras and what you had to do is you
had one sideways looking at your subject
and he mounted another one below pointed
down an angled mirror because you
couldn't put them side by side they're
too thick because you need the cameras
to be you know just a few inches apart
to simulate your eye distance it's just
a mess it's just the worst way to film
something you know in order to shoot a
movie like avatar you can't be running
around with 80 pound rigs it's
impossible so they did the whole thing
in cg because that way you can just
duplicate your camera and scoot it over
and you get your cg camera now they film
some things for real still but it's such
an easier process to make a film like
this 3d when you're filming it in cg
these days you guys are probably
familiar with like vr or the vive or the
oculus that kind of stuff and those
little systems have 3d tracking
now imagine 10 years ago you're james
cameron and you hire an entire team of
engineers to build that technology for
you
custom and what they can do is they can
use these little motion tracked rigs of
the screen and they're fed in real time
what the virtual camera would see it's
like looking through a vr headset
also a fun little fact in my opinion
avatar was the first movie to have
completely photorealistic flowing water
in a in a river there's one shot in
particular that stands out to me and i
wonder if it still looks as good as i
remember look at that look at that
that looks great
that's nuts like it's trippy yeah that
blew my mind when i saw it in theaters
i'm like that water is real
but it's not out of everything in avatar
this is the one thing i took away from
it is the water in the bottom third of
this one frame
that's something that stuck with me the
most from the visuals of this movie so
if you guys are enjoying the vfx artist
react series you might want to consider
heading on over to our patreon our
patrons get to vote on one of the scenes
that we react to in the vfx rs react
series and this time around they picked
300 so let's jump in
[Music]
this was the first movie that i saw
where
there were like an exorbitant amount of
spear and sword piercing and it's just
like so visceral
i love the in and out of the camera too
yeah it's so well done the cg blood too
is even pretty it's stylized but it's
cool i like it they do they use like a
zoom lens or they put like camera side
by side i'll tell you after at the scene
wow you just know it all
that was my favorite part coming up
right here the leg slice the leg slice
oh yeah
so good yeah that's great you may not be
able to tell but this scene is basically
just like six dudes in front of a green
screen all that background and
everything else that's all fake it's
just gerard butler and a couple like
ripped guys stabbing these dudes and one
of the things i did to get this awesome
effect you'll notice there's a lot of
slow motion right if you zoom in while
in slow motion it only takes a tenth of
a second to zoom in and you're filming
it like 10 times slower than regular
speed that means you had to zoom in at
100 that speed in real time it's like
that's impossible it's physically
impossible because they actually had
multiple cameras set up at different
focal lengths and they're filming the
entire fight scene just in slow motion
in one go and they're not doing any
crazy camera work or anything like that
it's just one camera wide one camera
medium one camera close and that's it
they are
basically stitching one shot to the
other shot so they'll punch into the the
wide shot and as it's zooming in the
close-up shot is kind of matched into it
and then that fills up the frame and now
we're at the close-up shot and it's not
all low-res and blurry because you're
not just cropping in on the wide shot
super simple approach this scene but
combining some slow motion some ramping
and obviously some great color work and
a good cg background
it just looks great those abs though man
that's really the key here is like the
abs 100 real no cg there if you guys
would like to be able to vote on scenes
that you want us to react to please head
on over to our patreon there's a link in
the description below if you like what
we do here please consider supporting us
helps make all this possible all right
back to the videos
[Music]
i'm like halfway through it all hand
animated too all of this stuff a guy
gets hit in the head of the bagel and
when that happens the word bagel pops up
yes
bagel
so there's something really cool that's
subconsciously happening this scene you
aren't aware of it but it just it sells
an emotion so most animations like
actual cartoons aren't animated at 24
frames per second most animations get
away with doing 12 frames per second so
they do it at half rate miles he is
being animated at 12 frames per second
like a classic cartoon you can really
see it here camera's moving at 24 frames
per second but miles is frozen for every
other frame in this shot that's so cool
peter parker the more refined better
spider-man he's being animated at 24
frames per second
per second movie that's cool and what
this is doing is it's showing you that
miles is not fully graceful yet he
hasn't quite learned how to be
spider-man as he becomes better and
better at being spider-man he's becoming
24 frames per second it's such a cool
idea one character feels a little more
clumsy and one feels just a little more
fluid i cannot wait to finish this movie
now we have plenty more cool shots to
react to but so do you i bet so if you
have any ideas leave a comment below and
we'll check it out too back to the vfx
shots
[Music]
yes
dude i got amped when i saw this it was
the scene that promised us that these
matrix sequels were going to be good
made a promise to us but it didn't keep
it it's such a cool scene though
i love the choreography
yeah the move right here
look at this look at that choreography
[Music]
i know parts of this look fake but a lot
of it looks really good i agree very
very realistic i love this dude
the camera move
wait so all the dog pile is that um i
think it's all cg really
this this is cool so you might think
it's like oh it's just a clone shot but
there's so much more happening in the
shot than you think these guys in the
background like in the very background
they're just dudes that kind of look
like hugo weaving like you can clearly
see it's just another guy
he's just a dude with the same haircut
right behind him those are cg heads and
those are flawless it helps that they're
not emoting
yeah a scripting king is is the exact
opposite
so here's how they're doing that they're
recording hugo weaving on a photo
capture stage they set up like multiple
cameras that are all recording him at
uncompressed data feeds and he does his
thing whatever he's going to do so
basically scanning his face in real time
while he does his performance and
they're also capturing all the texture
information of his skin while he does a
performance
dude i love face masks like this
so there's the the capture right there
it's actually really a creative way to
do cg faces for people you don't have to
have an artist go in and animate where
the wrinkles are and try to do all that
stuff you just heat weaving just does
its thing and you capture every frame of
it and you're done this is the exact
same technique they use for la noir it's
just an alley noir you're getting like
the low-res texture in the low-res
polygon version if you just up the
fidelity of that that's what you get
here but look it you cannot tell the
difference between the cg and the reel
there those are both identical i think
it was 40 terabytes
of data for a video capture of hugo
weaving's performance like i would
imagine that these
models of these faces were so high
resolution that people weren't even
really able to view
them in even remotely real time probably
they sit up like with a terminal and
they're just like compute and they step
away for like an hour and they get a
frame it's definitely a testament to
automating the cg process the less of
the artist's hand that you can put into
your footage i feel generally the more
realistic it can look
dude bold keanu reeves
we are
one of his
biggest fans and uh he apparently is one
of our biggest fans he stopped by for a
night to come down and goof off with us
head on over to youtube.com corridor to
check it out
ooh the mask i watched this movie like a
month ago did you really with my boy
i loved it he was like playing with
blocks
dude some old school like looney tunes
effects here
[Laughter]
but man what a great ingenious use of
visual effects to like do some comedy so
we're gonna look at some really messed
up pictures for a second here and you
guys would be surprised to find that
these pictures they're in all the
simpsons episodes like these weird
messed up pictures
what yeah like on purpose yeah these are
all in there on purpose so what you're
seeing here is a it's a technique known
as smearing so in animation there's no
such thing as motion blur because you're
just drawing one frame and then drawing
the next frame and drawing the next
frame but motion blur is what cues us
motion blur is what cues us into motion
this is something i've always been aware
of but i've never
stopped to see a frame
from it
jim carrey's character he's into
cartoons the mask is his realization of
these effects brought to life so the
animators had to do smearing in real
life i mean you can see it here he's
running up with his feet that's
technically smearing right there yeah so
there we go wow so they're actually
taking a cartoon effect here and
replicating that in real life on film
and trying to make it actually look real
look at his hands there and the way that
board smears like that's not regular
motion blur
that's an artist going in and animating
these smears
you can see it really well there too
like the face is crystal clear and
there's a long stretched head behind it
now obviously if that was real motion
blur the whole thing would be a blur
yeah that's cool but they're being
artistic with it it's an ingenious use
of the technique to make his cartoon
character exist in the real world
it's a visual effect
that hadn't been done anywhere else
nobody's done smearing in real life yeah
ooh star trek one of my
favorite is this the original star trek
the old the older one wait why are we
watching the original fight scene from
star wars
the scene being said
are we talking cg add-ons
yeah dope vader dope vader man
what is this
when i left you i was about to learn now
i am the master only a master of evil
dang they're fighting like legit oh dude
he's got moves
peter wasn't even looking
he didn't need to look at anybody he's
called the force man is that cg set
that's gotta be
how do they get obi-wan did they deep
fake him
dude the fire on his arm as he's
swinging like feels pretty good
i like the little reflections on the
eyeballs yeah all right so this is scene
38 reimagined by the youtube channel fix
it and post fx it and post you guys if
you want to see the scene you should
head over to your channel and check it
out we'll have a link in the description
below i really really like the scene and
i think it was really cool for them to
do this and now they're also working on
it for a very very very long time look
at look at vader's helmet you see the
real light reflections in his helmet
yeah so those lights were actually there
on set i feel like really the most
difficult part of this whole scene was
getting al guinness's face
onto that actor so they're using shots
from the movie so they'd have to
stabilize the original footage and
retract it back in to their shot
you can't win earth
if you strike me down i shall become
more powerful than you could possibly
imagine
that picture of guinness face is not
from this moment in the scene so the
lighting doesn't match yeah is that is
that like a 3d model it's a 3d model you
know what the way this is shot
lightsabers in front of his face the
hood there covering him up and all this
action really goes a long way to cover
that up because it just seems to be
something that you glance at out of the
corner of your eye don't waste your time
on it making it more than it has to be
to me what this theme really does is it
speaks to
how powerful the individual has become
in the world of visual effects when you
can have just a couple people if not one
person sitting down remaking this scene
from a classic film and arguably making
it even cooler from their bedroom in
their on their computer and that's the
world we live in these days when it
comes to visual effects it's pretty
pretty cool
you look lonely
blade runner what a trippy trippy trippy
movie one woman's a hologram the other
one's a hired prostitute
that's so weird
who we boys ryan gosling's just like
um
he's just really sweaty now he's like
really yeah
this is one of the cool scenes in the
movie because it's weird but it's also
really cool and you can't turn away from
it so you're probably wondering they
must have practiced this a whole lot it
did take a certain amount of practice
because they did both have to do the
same performance but that hand in the
finger shot is a really good example of
like the where this starts to get really
complex it's not just like two images
kind of transparent on top of each other
yeah they're like clipping through they
feel like yeah they're clipping in order
to make the fingers and these two bodies
kind of move in and out of each other in
3d space basically they have to take the
performances they have to then also
project them onto rough 3d models
of the characters it's called projection
mapping projection mapping is a really
common technique that's used in visual
effects it's kind of like those sidewalk
paintings those chalk drawings where if
you stand at the right angle it all kind
of lines up into an image our really old
video brush with death brush with def
that was all projection mapping that's
how he did the effect of like the
graffiti kind of coming to life or like
being stretched out and lines up and
pops into real life we just projection
mapped it let's imagine trying to
animate a 3d model to perfectly line up
with the footage just so you can
stamp that footage back onto it so that
way they can kind of go in and out of
each other in 3d space and that's so
complicated and it is super super super
complicated it also looks super cool and
was totally worth all that work also
it's an effect that serves a really deep
emotional purpose for the character and
it makes it even more powerful for that
reason you know blade runner 2049 has
the best digital human i've ever seen in
my entire life really
made again
for you
so harrison ford is completely cg
yep
[Music]
i
didn't realize until we sat down this
couch
that that woman right there
was completely cg oh she was cg yeah i
didn't even get this scene when i was
watching
2049.
i didn't even notice
i call myself a professional vfx artist
well i was thinking did they find
someone who looked very similar and very
close that what they did is they went
and to prove that they could do it they
recreated her in other scenes from the
original blade runner that is insane it
is absolutely insane because they're
also simulating like the slight
anamorphic
yeah the depth of field the reason this
works outside of incredible expertise
going into it is
no extreme expressions no extreme
movements
solid directional lighting
that's what did it for me yeah motion's
a little weird
this bullet in my brain's making me
dizzy
you don't have like a button you can
press to kill this robot you know you
made it why you have to shoot it like
get blood all over your office next door
some work or get shot in the knee there
[Applause]
yeah two million
credits space credits and stuff
if you guys love this series the fxrs
react and you want to see us do more of
these really cool concepts please
consider subscribing to the channel we
actually have some pretty cool projects
coming up we just got another motion
capture suit from accents and we have
some really crazy ideas do you guys want
to see us to try to do an obstacle
course where we put on the motion
capture suit but all the obstacles are
virtual so we have to like look at a
screen and like try to figure out where
to do to like complete this course and
on corridor keanu reeves keanu reeves
came out and decided to goof around with
us for a video we were filming at a gas
station and it got robbed wow who would
have thought you could go to corridor
and check it out if you haven't you want
to see us react to something leave a
comment lastly the whole weekend
all that stuff so enjoy this weekend
this weekend's on us
but you know what this week this weekend
you're you're hanging out with the crew
you know